README.md, before:

# vagrant-cloudera
A Vagrant setup to run a virtual Cloudera cluster.

Per se, four nodes a configured (see the top of Vagrantfile), but of course you might to use a different configuration. To use a different cluster configuration, you need to change the specified hosts in Vagrantfile and you also need to adopt the Puppet configuration file in `provision/puppet/manifests/site.pp` such that all required services are running on some hosts.

# Compatibility

I only tested the cluster on Ubuntu 14.04 with the `vagrant-lxc` plugin. If you plan to use a big virtual cluster running on a single machine, I strongly recommend using Linux containers (LXC) with `vagrant-lxc` instead of a full blown virtualisation. I guess it would also be possible to setup a virtual host machine running Ubuntu 14.04 on a different OS (even like Windows or Mac OS), and then use Linux containers with `vagrant-lxc` inside the virtual host.

# Dependencies

For best results, you should also install the Vagrant plugin `vagrant-hostmanager` simply by typing

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager
    
This neat plugin will make sure that every nodein your cluster gets a `hosts` file containing all other nodes of your Vagrant virtual cluster. This way you do not need to have any DNS bindings for your hosts, and you can simply rely on a DHCP server for assigning IP addresses.

# Starting

In order to start the cluster, simply go into the root directory and run

    vagrant up
    
This will bring up all nodes. Sometimes some provisioning errors might occur during startup. They mostly come by some race conditions of the parallel startup. In most cases, you can simply rerun the provisioning with `vagrant provision <node>` for a specific node.

# Available machines

The following virtual machines will be provided:

    namenode.localcluster  - Hadoop Namenode, Historytracker, YARN Resourcemanager
    datanode1.localcluster - Hadoop Datanode, YARN Nodemanager
    datanode2.localcluster - Hadoop Datanode, YARN Nodemanager
    client.localcluster    - Client machine which should be used to access all services
    
You can ssh into any of the machines using `vagrant` by typing

    vagrant ssh <nodename>
    
where `nodename` is one of `namenode`, `datanode1`, `datanode2`, `mysql` or `client` 
    

# Web Access to Hadoop

Hadoop will make some web interfaces available to the host machine.

    http://namenode.localcluster:50070
    http://datanode1.localcluster:50075/
    http://datanode2.localcluster:50075/

# Issues

The Cloudera Puppet module wants to change the kernel settings for transparent hugepages. This might now be possible in some virtual environment (most notably with LXC). In this case, you need to change the setting in the host environment

    echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag

Commit message:

Added mysql, zookeeper, hive and hbase

README.md, after:

# vagrant-cloudera
A Vagrant setup to run a virtual Cloudera cluster.

Per se, four nodes a configured (see the top of Vagrantfile), but of course you might to use a different configuration. To use a different cluster configuration, you need to change the specified hosts in Vagrantfile and you also need to adopt the Puppet configuration file in `provision/puppet/manifests/site.pp` such that all required services are running on some hosts.

# Compatibility

I only tested the cluster on Ubuntu 14.04 with the `vagrant-lxc` plugin. If you plan to use a big virtual cluster running on a single machine, I strongly recommend using Linux containers (LXC) with `vagrant-lxc` instead of a full blown virtualisation. I guess it would also be possible to setup a virtual host machine running Ubuntu 14.04 on a different OS (even like Windows or Mac OS), and then use Linux containers with `vagrant-lxc` inside the virtual host.

# Dependencies

For best results, you should also install the Vagrant plugin `vagrant-hostmanager` simply by typing

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager
    
This neat plugin will make sure that every nodein your cluster gets a `hosts` file containing all other nodes of your Vagrant virtual cluster. This way you do not need to have any DNS bindings for your hosts, and you can simply rely on a DHCP server for assigning IP addresses.

# Starting

In order to start the cluster, simply go into the root directory and run

    vagrant up
    
This will bring up all nodes. Sometimes some provisioning errors might occur during startup. They mostly come by some race conditions of the parallel startup. In most cases, you can simply rerun the provisioning with `vagrant provision <node>` for a specific node.

## Recommeneded startup order

Because the services have dependencies between them, the following order seems to be the best:

  1. client mysql zookeeper1
  2. namenode
  3. datanode1 datanode2
  4. hivenode hbasenode
  
Note that depending on your Vagrant provisioner and the environment, the IP addresses of the boxes may vary between multiple startups. Although the Vagrant plugin `vagrant-hostmanager` will update the `/etc/hosts` file on all boxes with the current IP addresses, it might be required to restart some services, because they still use old IP addresses of other boxes to connect.

# Available machines

The following virtual machines will be provided:

    namenode.localcluster   - Hadoop Namenode, Historytracker, YARN Resourcemanager
    datanode1.localcluster  - Hadoop Datanode, YARN Nodemanager
    datanode2.localcluster  - Hadoop Datanode, YARN Nodemanager
    zookeeper1.localcluster - Zookeeper Node
    hivenode.localcluster   - Hadoop Hive server and MetaStore server
    hbasenode.localcluster  - Hadoop HBase master server
    mysql.localcluster      - MySQL server (root password is 1234)
    client.localcluster     - Client machine which should be used to access all services
    
You can ssh into any of the machines using `vagrant` by typing

    vagrant ssh <nodename>
    
where `nodename` is one of `namenode`, `datanode1`, `datanode2`, `mysql` or `client` 
    

# Web Access to Hadoop

Hadoop will make some web interfaces available to the host machine.

    http://namenode.localcluster:50070
    http://datanode1.localcluster:50075/
    http://datanode2.localcluster:50075/

HBase services are also accessible at
    http://hbasenode.localcluster:60010
    http://datanode1.localcluster:60030
    http://datanode2.localcluster:60030

# Issues

## Error during startup

When starting all nodes at the same time via `vagrant up`, it can happen due some race conditions that there will be some error messages on your console. In most cases, the machines did boot up anyway. If this happens during or before provisioning, you can restart provisioning with `vagrant provision <nodename>`. 

## Error in Deployment
The Cloudera Puppet module wants to change the kernel settings for transparent hugepages. This might now be possible in some virtual environment (most notably with LXC). In this case, you need to change the setting in the host environment

    echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag
